= GeoIp

Retreive the geolocation of an IP address based on the {ipinfodb.com}[http://ipinfodb.com/] webservice.

As of 8th November 2010, the service is asking that all users {register}[http://ipinfodb.com/register.php] for an API key.

Consider making a donation to {ipinfodb.com}[http://ipinfodb.com/] at {http://ipinfodb.com/donate.php}[http://ipinfodb.com/donate.php]

== Usage

=== Set API key
  GeoIp.api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY"

This must be done before making the geolocation call.

=== Retrieve geolocation
  GeoIp.geolocation(ip_address)

=== Example

  # 209.85.227.104 = google.be (US)
  GeoIp.geolocation('209.85.227.104')

returns:

  {
    :status           =>"OK",
    :ip               =>"209.85.227.104"
    :country_code     =>"US",
    :country_name     =>"United States",
    :region_code      =>"06",
    :region_name      =>"California",
    :city             =>"Mountain View",
    :zip_postal_code  =>"94043",
    :latitude         =>"37.4192",
    :longitude        =>"-122.057"
  }

=== Country only

There is an option to only retreive the country information and thus excluding the city details. This results in a faster response from the service since less queries need to be done.

  GeoIp.geolocation('209.85.227.104', {:precision => :country})

returns:

  {
    :status           => "OK",
    :ip               => "209.85.227.104"
    :country_code     => "US",
    :country_name     => "United States"
  }

=== Timezone information

There is an option now to retrieve optional timezone information too:

  GeoIp.geolocation('209.85.227.104', {:timezone => true})

returns:

  {
    :status           =>"OK",
    :ip               =>"209.85.227.104"
    :country_code     =>"US",
    :country_name     =>"United States",
    :region_code      =>"06",
    :region_name      =>"California",
    :city             =>"Mountain View",
    :zip_postal_code  =>"94043",
    :latitude         =>"37.4192",
    :longitude        =>"-122.057"
    :timezone_name    =>"America/Los_Angeles",
    :utc_offset       =>-25200,
    :dst?             =>true
  }

Obviously it is not possible to have the country precision enabled while retrieving the timezone information.

== Getting it

GeoIp can be installed as a Ruby Gem:

  gem install geo_ip

Alternatively, you can also install it as a Rails plugin:

  ./script/plugin install git://github.com/jeroenj/geo_ip.git

== Testing

Set up your API key first for the test suite by creating a spec/api.yml file. Follow the example in spec/api.yml.example. Then run the tests with:

  ruby spec/geo_ip_spec.rb

If you get a LoadError, you should run the tests with:

  ruby -rubygems spec/geo_ip_spec.rb

== Colaborators

* {seanconaty}[https://github.com/seanconaty]
* {luigi}[https://github.com/luigi]
* {idris}[https://github.com/idris]

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Jeroen Jacobs, {redstorm sprl}[http://www.redstorm.be]. See LICENSE for details.
